duck a l'orange is probably one of the
most popular French dishes in the United
States and this amazing combination of
flavors that actually originated in the
Middle East can you believe that so many
thousands of years ago you have
something that's sweet
something with acidity something which
is pretty fatty just like here we have
pork chops and apple pie
and you know even a Asian sweetie sour
so we have here is we have a duck that's
been scored so you just take the knife
along it and score into X's it's all
chin and this helps render the fat down
a little bit yeah okay now I know dark
sweetly fatty but we're just gonna put a
little wine on the pan
okay so it doesn't stand on flavor to a
grape feed or canola oil you don't want
to burn the skin you might have a
beautiful colored skin all right we're
gonna put that down now find slice and
hug nice we're gonna see this a little
bit of sea salt
like can you see some of my cooking all
right so while that's going I think we
gotta get going in this stuff okay so
that's all so first either the blood
orange juice I just want to show what a
blood orange looks like see it's
beautiful right inside and it's been
seeded right now beautiful you know his
little sour and sweet to it so then it
really humps with the duck wow that's
good really good
okay well another the eating and now
it's time to get on with the sauce so
for just is famous oil orange sauce here
in the pan we have some sugar and just a
touch of water and with that sugar and
water we're going to make a very light
caramel we're gonna add three
peppercorns and a little bit of good
quality red wine vinegar this is a very
classical preparation it's called doing
gasping it kind of creates a base from
old sweet and sour tart that's right
okay gonna do it they say okay I go on
so there we have our caramel a very
light golden brown color we're going to
deglaze with this vinegar and be careful
guys if you can take your breath away so
don't stand too close we're gonna reduce
that vinegar down because we want to get
rid of that shot acidity now once that
has reduced we go to add the blood
orange this you let me just look at that
beautiful color
beautiful red that's California that's
the Mediterranean as well but I do
though think originally typically that's
right we're talking with multicultural
experiences we have the crab cake with a
French onion soup and now we have a
Sicilian orange that came to the United
States okay so there are vinegar has
reduced our nicely we're gonna add in
the blood orange juice and what we're
gonna do is we're going to let that
reduce by half so your little syrupy
okay so you're rendering the fat on the
duck you just want to take the grease
out of hand this helps you get more
crispy and now it's nicely rendered out
I'm gonna pop it in the oven for about
five minutes right here I have the
orange yet so you want to peel the
orange like this and kind of Li throw
the pith on it and then you want to put
this in boiling water three times
so basically we're blanching them and
we're doing that to take all the
bitterness out of the skins and then
we're going to put it with orange juice
sugar bring that to boil add this in and
slowly cook it for about an hour and 20
minutes so you can do this today before
it would be the best suggestion so then
we have the turn up here we're gonna
trim off the stem and then we're gonna
take off the leaves so we're gonna use
these leaves instead of throwing them
out like so often this happens so the
clean the turnip you just kind of want
to peel it keeping that natural foam you
know making the great cuisine is so much
about finding the best product and
they're not doing anything to damage it
so then we're going to cut this trailer
by this puts it's that we're gonna put
in a pan it's a little bit of chicken
stock it's gonna cover
I'm gonna put some butter in it a little
bit of sugar we're also gonna put a
pinch of salt in there and then we're
gonna put a cartouche the famous
cartouche very simple just a piece of
paper you fold it into four and you fold
it again and fold it again we like to
have a long triangle you measure into
the middle like so and we rip it I mean
you can actually do with a pair of
scissors if you prefer and then in the
middle here you need to make a little
hole to the steam and disappear and
how's that check for our homemade
cartoon that's beautiful
beautiful now we're gonna pop them on
the stove we're gonna bring it to a boil
reduce it down to a simmer okay and then
we're let it come down nice and slow
until it's perfectly cooked through and
nicely glazed so while this is cooking
down we're gonna check out our duck look
at that wow that smells good for the
duck here is medium rare beautifully
cooked nice and golden brown and crispy
on the fat further down a vegetable
Jase it's really great and then we're
gonna put it over here to rest that's so
important arrested yeah when you're
cooking you dry out all the juice around
it and this lets it let back into areas
right out it gets nice and moist and
even cover it all the way through I'm
not is such an important tip you should
always rest anything you doing a roast
chicken a prime rib let it rest it makes
such a huge difference exactly my orange
juice is reduced look how beautiful that
is nice look at that intense red color
colors are beautiful you know that
therapy so what we're gonna do now is
we're going to deglaze our sauce with
some chicken stock we have to let this
reduce until it becomes syrupy so what
we have we have the acidity of the
vinegar we have the acidity of the
citrus fruit we have the sweetness of
the orange we have the sweetness of the
sugar branding all those flavors we're
adding a little bit of German stuff it's
having a good poultry flavor it's giving
a little bit of depth we'll check on our
turnips here which are beautiful get see
there that's almost all the way cooked
down now and the reason you want to keep
them all standing up though so this part
stays nice and green that's right yeah
okay beautiful give it okay just place
them in a little based on a nice and
shiny great we're almost ready to finish
the dish off flip that reduce down a bit
but here we have our orange zest that we
talked about earlier cook down and sugar
and orange juice
could I get heighten the flavor of it
okay we're gonna cut these into strips
now we have the orange in two ways we
have the reduction and then here we have
the strip to confit death I like to
always have things more than one way
that's raised piece of meat a roasted
piece of meat a glaze
turn up a raw turnips reduce orange
juice orange zest it's really fun I
really enjoy putting that in my cooking
that's very big it's really great for
the guests and I guess I mean to me I
couldn't see doing any other way
I think it's great I think it's
straightforward you know what you're
each exactly so here we have some
turnips we're just gonna shave and he's
officially in olives they're like green
oval-shaped olive yeah really great
flavor not too salty and that's a very
clever combination another very
classical French dishes can also do so
you're playing with the two classics now
we want to shave leave in my skin you
want to keep them looking like a turn up
yeah my dad feel straight no nice turn
up they want to drip a little bit olive
oil over this and
this we're going to see then this one
with a little bit of fleur de sel the
flour the salt okay what you're taking
you know from Normandy France and that's
where you're I believe some of your eyes
yeah from Normandy my grandma's from
long she really taught me a lot on the
weekends cooking and hanging out her
house you guys make G go down yo so I go
yeah I got it or she making a duck
confit and then also my mother with a
caterer and she in the seventies and she
did all kind of the worldly cuisine
she had a school called Southern
California it's full of fine cuisine
this is why this guy is such a great
chef you know I think cooking starts
from when you're young it starts from
home it all starts at home doesn't it go
by mother family okay and I have a
skillet here yes does that go through
the TruGreen okay so maybe you want to
work down the turnip green for me with a
little bit of just a little olive oil a
little butter I think you're getting
there good eye little brothers keep it
French with apana and then we're gonna
wilt the greens I think it's important
whenever you see them greens come up on
a high some height and a little bit in
the very beginning when you complete
kind of green a little salt and the
pepper from the height this way it gets
well dispersed and you always do in the
beginning that we don't over salt it
that way is it uncle interact with you
beautiful
down here nicely to do that or a dozen
come in here the cross is finishing up I
think it's worth some butter in there
Monte oh well the classic French method
it grinds up all those corners it makes
it sound of velvety and smooth it's
awesome beautiful
so let's plate the duck I'm gonna put
these crooner greens right in the center
y'all coming to take it and I'm gonna do
about five slices you see that now how
beautiful it is about the jutsu than
running out because we let it rest
nicely so then I'm gonna take these duck
I'm gonna use this is a base put a
little pepper on that little furnace
though that's salt as well at the end
that keeps a nice crunch doesn't it
leaving the dark by food yeah and they
will pop it over I think it's very
important to show the skin side and then
you're gonna find those slices that like
this beautifully done
we have our turnips for pop one here
here and I sell the raw turnips kind of
run a plate nice okay and that's kind of
go around do the nice dishes in all of
the round right then if you like except
you just kind of do it yeah later the
song shine beautiful a little bit more I
just got to put that finishing touch
French love good sauce the chef all we
got put that the extra sauce and there's
our beautiful dish
you